---
layout: archive
title: "CV"
permalink: /cv/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /resume
---

{% include base_path %}

Education
======
* B.Tech in Computer Science and Engineering at Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, 2025 (expected)
* High School from Pragati Public School, Dwarka, New Delhi, India.

Work experience
======
* **Summer 2024: Data Science Researcher Intern**
  * ABB Ability Innovation Centre, Hyderabad India
  * Developed a novel state-of-art retrieval augmented generation pipeline capable of answering complex single-hop as well as multi-hop queries on an unstructured proprietary knowledge Base in the form of PDF documents.
  * The pipeline incorporated both Vector RAG and Graph RAG methods to create a highly superior data processing suite for retrieving highly relevant context from the Knowledge Base to answer complex closed-domain queries.
  * Developed a second pipeline on top of graph creation to create a standardized Ontology from the Knowledge Graph outlined in the incoming paper _"OntoRAG: An automated RAG pipeline for deriving Ontology for an Unstructured Knowledge Base"_.
  * Supervisor: Dr. Mayukha Pal

* **Spring 2024: Machine Learning Engineer**
  * Mindcase Technologies, New Delhi, India
  * Developed an Azure cloud based QnA chat application on proprietary data using FastAPI that ensures secure data flow between data transformation endpoints like LLM deployment, SQL Database and Vector Index.
  * Researched and developed a novel QnA pipeline based on evolving Retrieval Augmented Generation methods that handles queries of varying complexity using LLM Pipeline as data processors to enhance the QnA performance.
  * Integrated AWS Speech recognition and transcription service as well as Textract service through Python Web Socket APIs to enable live language recognition/audio transcribing and OCR use cases within local applications.
  * Supervisor: Shubham Saurabh

* **Skills**
  * **Programming Languages**: Python, C++, C, JavaScript, SQL, Bash.
  * **Programming Frameworks**: 
    * PyTorch 
    * Huggingface
    * Langchain 
    * LlamaIndex 
    * DsPy 
    * neo4j 
    * Pinecone 
    * Milvus
  * **Technologies**: Deep Learning, Natural Language Processing, Retrieval Augmented Generation, Graph Machine Learning, Knowledge Graphs, AWS, Azure, Google Cloud, Docker, Git.

* **Projects**
  * **Secure Implementation of ML Workloads on GPU Architecture (Ongoing)**
    - Investigating secure memory management, cryptographic protocols, and access control with hardware-based TEEs to ensure data confidentiality and integrity for ML tasks on GPUs.
    - Profiling CNNs (e.g., ResNet, AlexNet) on NVIDIA T1000 to identify unique computational patterns, aiding in architectural fingerprinting and uncovering security vulnerabilities.
    - Reproducing side-channel and covert-channel attacks on multi-GPUs and exploring mitigation techniques like noise injection and adaptive scheduling to prevent model architecture inference.
  * **SQL Generator**:
    - Finetuned Flan-T5 for a text-to-text generation task of generating SQL queries from english language text.
    - Use schema-less dataset WikiSQL for internal finetuning followed by one round of fine tuning on Kaggle Spyder dataset with database schema attached to queries.
    - At last, One round of training was done on custom generated queries with custom proprietary schema.
    - The final model, after all training rounds, had a rouge score of 0.71.

  * **AI-Generated Text Detection (Kaggle Competition- 2024)**:
    - Built an LLM pipeline as well as linear classifiers capable of detecting text generated by generative AI models like LLMs.
    - Leveraged a Sentence Piece Construction approach using Byte Pair Encoding tokenization and TF-IDF vectorization to encode input text to fit an ensemble classifier comprising of CatBoost, LightGBM, and Naive Bayes.
    - Implemented a second approach to the problem using DistilBERT LLM, finetuned with Low-Rank Adaptation (LoRA).
    - The ensemble model achieved a leaderboard score of 0.96, outperforming the DistilBERT model, with a score of 0.86.

  * **AI-Powered Resume and Recommendations Screening (Innov8 2.0, Eightfold AI, IIT Delhi)**:
    - Created a tool to detect resume fraud and suspicious endorsements in recommendation letters by identifying falsified claims.
    - Created features such as Loyalty Index , Redundancy Score (repeated endorsements), Gap Ratio (employment gaps) , and Exaggeration Score (frequency of praise words) to assess resume and recommendation letter authenticity.
    - Used NetworkX for circular endorsement detection and the Leiden algorithm for clustering suspicious patterns.
    - Identified fraudulent resumes and patterns, equipping HR with a dashboard for clear insights and informed decisions.

Publications
======
  <ul>{% for post in site.publications reversed %}
    {% include archive-single-cv.html %}
  {% endfor %}</ul>

  
Service and leadership
======
* Academic Evaluator at **Asian Physics Olympiad, 2022** with participants from 28 countries in Asian Continent.
